---
source: stratechery
from: Ben Thompson <email@stratechery.com>
subject: "AI Hardware, Meta Display, Redefining VR and AR (Stratechery Update 4-27-2026)"
date: 2026-04-27T10:03:05.000Z
extracted: 2026-04-27T13:08:13.376Z
---

# AI Hardware, Meta Display, Redefining VR and AR (Stratechery Update 4-27-2026)

**From:** Ben Thompson <email@stratechery.com>  
**Date:** 2026-04-27T10:03:05.000Z

---

I finally tried the Meta Ray-Ban Display, and it completely changed how I think about AR and VR.

View in browser ( https://stratechery.com/2026/ai-hardware-meta-display-redefining-vr-and-ar/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI2L2FpLWhhcmR3YXJlLW1ldGEtZGlzcGxheS1yZWRlZmluaW5nLXZyLWFuZC1hci8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTc3OTg3NjE4NSwiaWF0IjoxNzc3Mjg0MTg1LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwcC5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyIsInN1YiI6IjAxOTUxNmYxLWEzNDYtNzYxNC05ZTk2LWI2M2JkMTFmZTg1NiIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.t9xHrsIzx5pJa58DM6ZVGR2bv_ujaQgMQkCWwxX824CYFDnlWgLVktvwZDmZrOpAZl0zoxWqCUibk31nV1GvM6NX8dDezbNBBg0dCiOAGAc4p0QyBCwQzDNvFrckTNJ-NiBhc13-XmsuEixHNGCV-UHxdt-eArI-j_l59WvypdaaWig7JupF-7k9opfUmlkDYmKHX0z-eIrSIbCRSnrP3fGYdLSkKJVQFlozt-UHOFXJeN_aKWSlBKJwHJJdu6_cihyAOYXnj06Sd8T5YONNG7M_z9yheiqZJpL0lIQVtaDvzCuEenPfWKPabeYlYQZyBnEvwfXlE3P7mSryXLGJPg ) | Listen in your podcast player ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FCLKjCzLJnXsHRUFPqZ2K9 )

( https://stratechery.com )

***********************************************
AI Hardware, Meta Display, Redefining VR and AR
***********************************************

( https://stratechery.com/2026/ai-hardware-meta-display-redefining-vr-and-ar/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI2L2FpLWhhcmR3YXJlLW1ldGEtZGlzcGxheS1yZWRlZmluaW5nLXZyLWFuZC1hci8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTc3OTg3NjE4NSwiaWF0IjoxNzc3Mjg0MTg1LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwcC5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyIsInN1YiI6IjAxOTUxNmYxLWEzNDYtNzYxNC05ZTk2LWI2M2JkMTFmZTg1NiIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.t9xHrsIzx5pJa58DM6ZVGR2bv_ujaQgMQkCWwxX824CYFDnlWgLVktvwZDmZrOpAZl0zoxWqCUibk31nV1GvM6NX8dDezbNBBg0dCiOAGAc4p0QyBCwQzDNvFrckTNJ-NiBhc13-XmsuEixHNGCV-UHxdt-eArI-j_l59WvypdaaWig7JupF-7k9opfUmlkDYmKHX0z-eIrSIbCRSnrP3fGYdLSkKJVQFlozt-UHOFXJeN_aKWSlBKJwHJJdu6_cihyAOYXnj06Sd8T5YONNG7M_z9yheiqZJpL0lIQVtaDvzCuEenPfWKPabeYlYQZyBnEvwfXlE3P7mSryXLGJPg ) Monday, April 27, 2026

Good morning,

A scheduling note: this week’s Stratechery Interview will come out tomorrow instead of Thursday, and at 1pm Eastern/10am Pacific instead of the usual 6am/3am. It is, as you might guess, embargoed, and the timing is good for me: there is a tsunami of earnings later in the week that I will start breaking down on Thursday.

On last week’s episode of Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/episode/tim-cooks-exit-and-what-comes-next-a-space-x-deal-with-cursor-q-a-on-vibe-coding-tsmc-whats-app ) , Andrew and I discussed Tim Cook’s legacy, SpaceX and Cursor, and why the Oklahoma City Thunder drive me crazy.

On to the Update:

AI Hardware
-----------

I want to return to the same Mark Gurman Bloomberg article ( https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2026-04-21/apple-bets-new-ceo-john-ternus-will-bring-back-jobs-era-decisiveness ) that I linked to last week ( https://stratechery.com/2026/john-ternus-and-apples-hardware-defined-future-spacexai-and-cursor/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.JyqXImAXHZEVL3mb0mRgwTDL7ZwoaxO7XoWkSvrZeZGxhgu0GSFfGYodL9-XoqzaYHqPRGQoI7AxSLPXRGHeexCVZo7si6w0E1mH-6sJBYQ8HUmnc3fdBqzceZp10MvhArB-xDD_v4eEXUVkfMm_sMBfnJapSNmYxEwf8BySR4Vt-QpavplGlx8CpS7VBDXzr9nAcRsVrEk-GPRAN5G2brpW94x0oIqpmZ7WYEWGQfcgnLyPQZv2N9fXrrJRINxX3sFp8a5P6zMsWBMC6lWssL88dVSHx1-Jv5pQXZUBDBu5L7pfYKsgUo3p1-ms6Phwx3S62k2sCjGvYlZnR9Aq2w ) in the context of discussing John Ternus as Apple’s new CEO. Specifically, this paragraph:

This was the beginning of Ternus putting his stamp on the company, but he’ll now have to lead Apple into additional new categories. The tech giant is currently focused on two main areas of expansion: AI-powered smart home products and wearable devices. The home push includes a smart display with facial recognition, a tabletop robot with a swiveling display for videoconferencing and media playback, and a privacy-focused security camera. The wearables effort spans smart glasses, a pendant device and new AirPods, all with computer-vision cameras for scanning a wearer’s surroundings.

So far, progress has been uneven. Apple had hoped to introduce smart glasses as early as this year, but the product remains months away from readiness, potentially pushing a debut into 2027. Its home devices have also been delayed as Apple struggles to get its AI models and next-generation Siri voice assistant up to par. The tabletop robot, once targeted for 2027, is now at risk of slipping into 2028.

It’s worth pointing out (as I did on Sharp Tech last week), that there is an angle where Apple’s excellence in devices doesn’t simply mean that they tread water in the AI era (because everyone needs a device), but where they actually have significant growth opportunities, because all of their customers will buy that many more devices.

This is, of course, exactly what defined Cook’s biggest successes in terms of hardware: the buyers of AirPods and Apple Watches were already iPhone buyers; in this future AI world Apple customers also buy another set of wearables for their eyes, as well as devices around the home.

At the same time, this also speaks to why this strategy will be challenging for Apple: the more devices there are, the more that the phone is not the center of your world, but rather a device on the periphery like all of the rest; what is at the center is AI, which is to say that even if Apple’s future product growth is devices, the enabler of actual growth — beyond treading water — will be delivering on AI.

Meta Display
------------

The other reason to bring up these devices is that I wanted an excuse to talk about the Meta Ray-Ban Display ( https://www.meta.com/ai-glasses/meta-ray-ban-display/ ) : not only have I finally bought a pair, but I also had a chance to compare and contrast them to Meta’s announced-but-unreleased Orion glasses (I wrote about my experience with Orion in September 2024 ( https://stratechery.com/2024/more-on-orion-where-vision-pro-went-wrong-apples-response-and-metas-motivation/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.m0vlOj05IciHtkfalfwxuZqBwt5LtqvxnZuTW2AIUQlJJj3I9PjaIh_94qONNa_aLBbtQVguCcbZzuYVBcBBeLssjDyUxcvaZ9K_mxdxHYe7ZJjNn8HJtH1x3hD70naCvimgDvWXr4QwwULPYfCekrDhJeGTD5gcsvx01xMaGsEuuGBHU-A_QY6R8Mnuf-WHfGmQnboJJrKj_VhJnhZixBeF6sasIuZqnx5NwI4xEkD7VnkVF2xTSGNy5GsYM-Xp38yqa-KmJcj4ivccUrg0bo5e1OJnghP9x0kIFxldP9LfLMUc9ND6rWX6jhk-51h9Hc_6LW7ScLsuMKiRnJzVkA ) ). To refresh your memory, the Meta Ray-Ban Display are the for-sell Meta glasses that include a small display in the right lens, and a Neural Band to control it; Orion is the both-lens full-display(ish) experience that has been shown to the public but is not for sale.

First off, it was interesting to go back and read what I wrote in September ( https://stratechery.com/2025/meta-ray-ban-display-why-less-is-more-price-and-the-neural-band/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI1L21ldGEtcmF5LWJhbi1kaXNwbGF5LXdoeS1sZXNzLWlzLW1vcmUtcHJpY2UtYW5kLXRoZS1uZXVyYWwtYmFuZC8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTc3OTg3NjE4NSwiaWF0IjoxNzc3Mjg0MTg1LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwcC5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyIsInN1YiI6IjAxOTUxNmYxLWEzNDYtNzYxNC05ZTk2LWI2M2JkMTFmZTg1NiIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.iaIXyJfhVhFg56AOdgRJyGlVMgTMsZSTm6YkhnLz63NCDjG9gpC7E9-2zlpjVBNxRLLGXE2Fe7B-K3ETTcXtc9WQqS4SujU1MnWmCMwZzfCFZu0A_BWKdxJydpNNJtxGTqRxWroS9RGWhQpHhS_Q1yxyGTYkuRja156NHowKIZeDefJ36YuoZjCqeG6En9w59bhBaxRd-cENrPFSGgZ5FaSBp0x9iW5MfIHNIij7CiXRz1KN5ZnXn17ZY0TQIATGE7IU3K5LByua-235qMctGqrv4bFbK8POyNoLhxRdE5vpu_ELFGFFNNLZT1U-4UWeKgrfDhC0RfGy-3gy5lRDKA ) when the Ray-Ban Display was announced, particularly since I was not there and did not get a chance to try them. To summarize:

* I figured that since I had tried Orion I understood the gist of the Display product experience
* I called Display “more of a heads-up display than a full-blown AR experience”
* I noted that Display delivered on my favorite part of the Orion experience, which was notifications, which I called “just-in-time UI”
* I noted that Display wasn’t an app platform, and that AR might never be an app platform
* I argued that Meta’s lack of an app platform would be an advantage because the right interface was AI

After using Display (and re-using Orion), here’s my score: wrong, extremely wrong, right, very right, right. Each is worth explaining in full — particularly the two I got wrong, which very much go together.

Redefining VR and AR
--------------------

My assumption, which was only reaffirmed by using Orion 18 months ago, was that headsets were VR, and glasses were AR. After all, the former covered your eyes, while the latter let you see the real world, with the user interface layer on top. That meant that Quest and the Apple Vision Pro were VR, while Orion was AR.

After using Display I’ve changed my mind: what matters is not whether or not your eyes are occluded. After all, if you think about it, Apple Vision Pro has pass-through, the purpose of which is to let you see the world around you at very high fidelity; sure, that will never be as high fidelity as looking through glasses, but ultimately we’re arguing about implementation details. Rather, what differentiates VR versus AR is immersion. I explained this a decade ago when VR and AR were becoming popular concepts at CES 2016 ( https://stratechery.com/2016/ces-2016/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDE2L2Nlcy0yMDE2LyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzc5ODc2MTg1LCJpYXQiOjE3NzcyODQxODUsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBwLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiMDE5NTE2ZjEtYTM0Ni03NjE0LTllOTYtYjYzYmQxMWZlODU2IiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.uQmDP5aZpw0rsyYGe6RnWUL8vBNW9Ybhu9nAf2LQy5vhCOI_9oQ6W-ajZUIkPJu39qkEpdEVdW0TW5wC6TkA6ZQcN-SGlVQKhWjpSL-NFDRWEkyqTfrQpym3WPxLRVotjm-HoaUH4DPA0KvgDY5SyLjy-OF_GHAkmfTLA7JfA2D4nDGDvrml2BLAHxZbzdLrp2Me1hjFnr_hignfrAfU0lJ6YAz7ssx0L2u2t0jBI6tXDUBeYU-nYVWWOcQnvyI5weHdXGJJAQUoyPGb7xS8FSdy-HjYF2RU42ArM2SdcF5KBcOO-iL8oRcgd8l_XoRc9_ythzfQ5jwfhSKnG6M9kw ) :

I think it’s useful to make a distinction between virtual and augmented reality. Just look at the names: “virtual” reality is about an immersive experience completely disconnected from one’s current reality, while “augmented” reality is about, well, augmenting the reality in which one is already present. This is more than a semantic distinction about different types of headsets: you can divide nearly all of consumer technology along this axis. Movies and videogames are about different realities; productivity software and devices like smartphones are about augmenting the present. Small wonder, then, that all of the big virtual reality announcements are expected to be video game and movie related.

Augmentation is more interesting: for the most part it seems that augmentation products are best suited as spokes around a hub; a car’s infotainment system, for example, is very much a device that is focused on the current reality of the car’s occupants, and as evinced by Ford’s announcement, the future here is to accommodate the smartphone. It’s the same story with watches and wearables generally, at least for now.

I highlight that timing reference because it’s worth remembering that smartphones were originally conceived of as a spoke around the PC hub; it turned out, though, that by virtue of their mobility — by being useful in more places, and thus capable of augmenting more experiences — smartphones displaced the PC as the hub. Thus, when thinking about the question of what might displace the smartphone, I suspect what we today think of a “spoke” will be a good place to start. And, I’d add, it’s why platform companies like Microsoft and Google have focused on augmented, not virtual, reality, and why the mysterious Magic Leap has raised well over a billion dollars to-date; always in your vision is even more compelling than always in your pocket (as is always on your wrist).

I think this is correct; what I didn’t appreciate about Orion when I tried it, however, is that Orion is virtual reality, not augmented reality, and the reason comes down to how you interact with the device. Specifically, Orion’s primary input method is eye tracking — just like the Apple Vision Pro. You look at user interface elements and act on them with your hands; the primary difference between Orion and the Apple Vision Pro in this regard is that the former uses the Neural Band while the latter uses cameras watching your hands.

What this means in practice is that controlling and interacting with Orion requires focus — to use my language from a decade ago, it is “an immersive experience completely disconnected from one’s current reality”. When I was interacting with Orion it simply wasn’t possible to really pay attention to actual reality around me, even if I could see that reality in full fidelity. To put it another way, I needed to focus on Orion, and push the real world to my peripheral vision. This, in the end, is the same as the Vision Pro: I can turn on pass-through, but when I’m interacting with the Vision Pro I’m not really aware of or able to pay attention to the real world around me.

The Ray-Ban Display is totally different, and it comes down to the input method. In this case the only input method is the Neural Band, and I found it easy to pay attention to the real world while manipulating the Display with my hand (which could be in my pocket or behind my back); to contrast this to Orion, I could focus on the real world, while Display was in my peripheral vision. To use my language from a decade ago, Display “augment[ed] the reality in which [I was] already present.”

I can’t overstate what a difference this was. In fact, I preferred the Display experience so much relative to Orion that I have two pretty strong takes. First, I can’t envision ever preferring Orion to Display; that’s how much more compelling Display is in terms of a glasses experience. Second, I think that Orion is a dead end: if I’m going to immerse myself into an experience, then I would rather have the much brighter and higher resolution screens of a Vision Pro, or even a Quest. Making VR work in glasses is a massive technical achievement, make no mistake, but it comes with some massive trade-offs in terms of display quality in particular. I’d rather make those trade-offs for a true augmented reality experience — which the Display delivers — than for an experience that pulls me out of the real world, mentally if not physically.

All of this gets at the things that I got right:

* Notifications were the best part of the Display experience, and the other parts of the Display experience that I enjoy were in a similar vein of a “just-in-time” UI. For example, you can have real-time captions displayed of someone speaking, or live translation. There is also a teleprompter feature, which I would like to see extended to show any information that I send to it from a share sheet (like, say, a recipe).
* I absolutely believe that Display should not be an app platform. There are already too many apps on there, in my experience, and they’re clunky to navigate. Moreover, it was annoying and detractive to the experience when replying to a notification exposed me to too much of an app’s interface: I just want to give a reply, not see the mechanics of the WhatsApp app launching.
* AI is absolutely the killer feature for these glasses, although the current experience is lacking. Not only is it still based on Llama, but it’s kind of at parity to apps in terms of its centrality to the experience. While I bemoan the loss of chrome in places like MacOS, in this case I don’t want any chrome at all: everything should be mediated — and ideally anticipated — by AI, showing me what I need when I need it and getting out of the way the rest of the time.

Meta is in an interesting place with apps, given Quest. I do think that apps make sense in the case of VR: you are intentionally entering into an experience, and the app paradigm aligns with that intentionality. This also fits with how Apple is approaching the Vision Pro.

The Display, however, is at its best when interaction is more serendipitous than intentional. It is AI that can deliver that serendipity, and for that reason alone I am glad that Meta doubled down on AI and that the Meta Spark model appears to be a solid step in the right direction, particularly in terms of multimodality. And, by extension, I do wonder about Apple’s long-term capabilities in terms of AR. The company’s old playbook will work with VR; AR isn’t a converging area, in my opinion, but one that actually will diverge more and more. PCs never did become tablets, and vice versa, and Windows 8 was a failure. These are two categories, and I think Meta is much better placed than Apple in terms of AR specifically.

I can’t overstate what a big deal the Neural Band is in this regard. This is obviously the right input method for this experience, and honestly, I wish I could use it in more places. I did — speaking of CES — read this from Engadget ( https://www.engadget.com/wearables/metas-emg-wristband-is-moving-beyond-its-ar-glasses-120000503.html ) with interest:

At CES 2026, [Meta] is offering its first look at how its neural band could be used to control devices outside of its smart glasses lineup. Meta has teamed up with Garmin, as well as a handful of research partners, to explore some intriguing use cases for its wrist-based controller. The social media company has previously worked with Garmin on fitness integrations for its glasses. But at CES, the companies were showing off a very early demo of how Meta’s neural band inside of a car to control the built-in infotainment system.

The experience is part of Garmin’s “Unified Cabin” concept, which explores a bunch of AI-centric in-car experiences. The demo I tried was fairly limited: while wearing a neural band, I was able to navigate two apps on a touchscreen display in Garmin’s cockpit setup. In one, I used pinch and swipe gestures to manipulate an onscreen model of a car, much like how I would use the band to zoom in and out of an image while wearing the display glasses. The second demo, somewhat bizarrely, was a game of 2048. I used the same swipe gestures to move the tiles around.

Neither of those are the kinds of experiences you immediately think of when you imagine “in-car entertainment,” but Garmin, which works with a number of major car brands on infotainment systems, seems to be thinking about some more practical use cases too. The company told me that it will explore using the neural band to control vehicle functions like rolling down windows or unlocking doors.

I’ll tell you exactly what I want a Neural Band for: I of course always follow the law, but let’s just say that one can position a phone in a Tesla such that you can see the screen while using Full Self-Driving (Supervised) without being yelled at by the car; actually interacting with the phone, however, gets you in trouble. One can imagine how useful it might be to be able to interact with the interface from a few feet away!

Of course I’m not exactly making the best case for the Neural Band by suggesting I might want to use it to circumvent important safety features, but I think it’s an interesting use case just in terms of thinking about how useful it might be to have a control interface for distant objects — devices that are in the real world, that augment it. Neural Band is the input method for the augmented world; its first application is for glasses, but in the fullness of time, I don’t think that will be its last.

So will I be wearing the Ray-Ban Display regularly? That’s an easy answer: no, and the reason it’s easy is that I wear normal glasses with a high (and thus unsupported) prescription; I would need to wear contacts to use the Display, and, for various reasons, that’s not going to happen regularly. It is a bit of a bitter irony that the future world of smart glasses may be cut off from me precisely because I need glasses!

That noted, I still don’t think I would wear them regularly if I had perfect vision. The outlines of a future interaction paradigm are here, but the AI in particular needs to get better (I hope the Display team has a strong relationship with Meta SuperIntelligence). Right now everything is too manual and intentional, and not sufficiently anticipatory and serendipitous. Still, there is something here — more than there was with Orion — and I’m excited to see how it develops.

This Update will be available as a podcast later today. To receive it in your podcast player, visit Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member ).

The Stratechery Update is intended for a single recipient, but occasional forwarding is totally fine! If you would like to order multiple subscriptions for your team with a group discount (minimum 5), please contact me directly.

Thanks for being a subscriber, and have a great day!

Listen to this update and other Stratechery Plus content in your podcast player:
Stratechery ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FCLKjCzLJnXsHRUFPqZ2K9 ) | Sharp Tech ( https://sharptech.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharptech.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FCLKjCzLJnXsHRUFPqZ2K9 ) | Dithering ( https://dithering.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fdithering.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FCLKjCzLJnXsHRUFPqZ2K9 ) | Sharp China ( https://sharpchina.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharpchina.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FCLKjCzLJnXsHRUFPqZ2K9 )
Greatest Of All Talk ( https://goat.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgoat.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FCLKjCzLJnXsHRUFPqZ2K9 ) | Asianometry ( https://asianometry.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fasianometry.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FCLKjCzLJnXsHRUFPqZ2K9 )

Subscription Information

Member: cmatecun
Email: cmatecun@gmail.com
Member since: August 10, 2025
Your subscription renews every year
Renewal date: August 10, 2026

You are receiving this email because you are subscribed to Stratechery ( https://stratechery.com ).

Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/login?email=cmatecun%40gmail.com ) to view your account and manage your subscriptions.
Click here ( https://stratechery.passport.online/member/unsubscribe?unsub=https%3A%2F%2Fstratechery.passport.online%2Fapi%2F1.0.0%2Fusers%2FCLKjCtDhPT8bsKnDAgUcu%2FchannelOptOut%3Faccess_token%3DeyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9hcGkvMS4wLjAvdXNlcnMvQ0xLakN0RGhQVDhic0tuREFnVWN1L2NoYW5uZWxPcHRPdXQ_Y2hhbm5lbD1lbWFpbFx1MDAyNnJlZGlyZWN0X3VyaT1odHRwcyUzQSUyRiUyRnN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSUyRm1lbWJlciUyRnVuc3Vic2NyaWJlIl19LCJleHAiOjE3Nzk4NzYxODUsImlhdCI6MTc3NzI4NDE4NSwiaXNzIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9hcHAucGFzc3BvcnQub25saW5lL29hdXRoIiwic2NvcGUiOiJtZW1iZXI6d3JpdGUiLCJzdWIiOiIwMTk1MTZmMS1hMzQ2LTc2MTQtOWU5Ni1iNjNiZDExZmU4NTYiLCJ1c2UiOiJhY2Nlc3MifQ.snLnh5MIkOgR_2e5WVZgv5CUmvB0EYFZPl06VULIoenLdq6GvfoLHVmotYfnQFZeJK7rlJqQqqYiD7Hn-53ZwrMCnaKeHkC8aeFTR3FhFBbEqpEoojaGCDSaVk5pqlxJiyILAQgEz95nABINA2icHtfrGjNjY4G40K69BfnrvUIGfDpJYNz9xoLcHz8tmogvIOAIKWqb7k0qTiEZoTt7i4SIA74Wlp4lL800DQMvMrmEhx7P4rr8_aYzMtex5u2bzmDdXvY4wyZj7mV131pCjuuBVAJvqYVf_KmJ6J7Oto3BlqZZJ5FUlNSvSbcH-LLkomMwRO9AixwIv_rEVCj_hg%26channel%3Demail%26redirect_uri%3Dhttps%253A%252F%252Fstratechery.passport.online%252Fmember%252Funsubscribe ) to unsubscribe.

© 2026 Stratechery LLC ( https://www.stratechery.com ) , 2093 Philadelphia Pike #9930, Claymont DE 19703

---

## Links found in email

- https://stratechery.com/2026/ai-hardware-meta-display-redefining-vr-and-ar/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDI2L2FpLWhhcmR3YXJlLW1ldGEtZGlzcGxheS1yZWRlZmluaW5nLXZyLWFuZC1hci8iXX0sImV4cCI6MTc3OTg3NjE4NSwiaWF0IjoxNzc3Mjg0MTg1LCJpc3MiOiJodHRwczovL2FwcC5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUvb2F1dGgiLCJzY29wZSI6ImZlZWQ6cmVhZCBhcnRpY2xlOnJlYWQgYXNzZXQ6cmVhZCBjYXRlZ29yeTpyZWFkIGVudGl0bGVtZW50cyIsInN1YiI6IjAxOTUxNmYxLWEzNDYtNzYxNC05ZTk2LWI2M2JkMTFmZTg1NiIsInVzZSI6ImFjY2VzcyJ9.t9xHrsIzx5pJa58DM6ZVGR2bv_ujaQgMQkCWwxX824CYFDnlWgLVktvwZDmZrOpAZl0zoxWqCUibk31nV1GvM6NX8dDezbNBBg0dCiOAGAc4p0QyBCwQzDNvFrckTNJ-NiBhc13-XmsuEixHNGCV-UHxdt-eArI-j_l59WvypdaaWig7JupF-7k9opfUmlkDYmKHX0z-eIrSIbCRSnrP3fGYdLSkKJVQFlozt-UHOFXJeN_aKWSlBKJwHJJdu6_cihyAOYXnj06Sd8T5YONNG7M_z9yheiqZJpL0lIQVtaDvzCuEenPfWKPabeYlYQZyBnEvwfXlE3P7mSryXLGJPg
- https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Frss.stratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FCLKjCzLJnXsHRUFPqZ2K9
- https://stratechery.com
- https://sharptech.fm/member/episode/tim-cooks-exit-and-what-comes-next-a-space-x-deal-with-cursor-q-a-on-vibe-coding-tsmc-whats-app
- https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2026-04-21/apple-bets-new-ceo-john-ternus-will-bring-back-jobs-era-decisiveness
- https://stratechery.com/2026/john-ternus-and-apples-hardware-defined-future-spacexai-and-cursor/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.JyqXImAXHZEVL3mb0mRgwTDL7ZwoaxO7XoWkSvrZeZGxhgu0GSFfGYodL9-XoqzaYHqPRGQoI7AxSLPXRGHeexCVZo7si6w0E1mH-6sJBYQ8HUmnc3fdBqzceZp10MvhArB-xDD_v4eEXUVkfMm_sMBfnJapSNmYxEwf8BySR4Vt-QpavplGlx8CpS7VBDXzr9nAcRsVrEk-GPRAN5G2brpW94x0oIqpmZ7WYEWGQfcgnLyPQZv2N9fXrrJRINxX3sFp8a5P6zMsWBMC6lWssL88dVSHx1-Jv5pQXZUBDBu5L7pfYKsgUo3p1-ms6Phwx3S62k2sCjGvYlZnR9Aq2w
- https://www.meta.com/ai-glasses/meta-ray-ban-display/
- https://stratechery.com/2024/more-on-orion-where-vision-pro-went-wrong-apples-response-and-metas-motivation/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.m0vlOj05IciHtkfalfwxuZqBwt5LtqvxnZuTW2AIUQlJJj3I9PjaIh_94qONNa_aLBbtQVguCcbZzuYVBcBBeLssjDyUxcvaZ9K_mxdxHYe7ZJjNn8HJtH1x3hD70naCvimgDvWXr4QwwULPYfCekrDhJeGTD5gcsvx01xMaGsEuuGBHU-A_QY6R8Mnuf-WHfGmQnboJJrKj_VhJnhZixBeF6sasIuZqnx5NwI4xEkD7VnkVF2xTSGNy5GsYM-Xp38yqa-KmJcj4ivccUrg0bo5e1OJnghP9x0kIFxldP9LfLMUc9ND6rWX6jhk-51h9Hc_6LW7ScLsuMKiRnJzVkA
- https://stratechery.com/2025/meta-ray-ban-display-why-less-is-more-price-and-the-neural-band/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.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.iaIXyJfhVhFg56AOdgRJyGlVMgTMsZSTm6YkhnLz63NCDjG9gpC7E9-2zlpjVBNxRLLGXE2Fe7B-K3ETTcXtc9WQqS4SujU1MnWmCMwZzfCFZu0A_BWKdxJydpNNJtxGTqRxWroS9RGWhQpHhS_Q1yxyGTYkuRja156NHowKIZeDefJ36YuoZjCqeG6En9w59bhBaxRd-cENrPFSGgZ5FaSBp0x9iW5MfIHNIij7CiXRz1KN5ZnXn17ZY0TQIATGE7IU3K5LByua-235qMctGqrv4bFbK8POyNoLhxRdE5vpu_ELFGFFNNLZT1U-4UWeKgrfDhC0RfGy-3gy5lRDKA
- https://stratechery.com/2016/ces-2016/?access_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InN0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZSIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJhdWQiOiJzdHJhdGVjaGVyeS5wYXNzcG9ydC5vbmxpbmUiLCJhenAiOiJIS0xjUzREd1Nod1AyWURLYmZQV00xIiwiZW50Ijp7InVyaSI6WyJodHRwczovL3N0cmF0ZWNoZXJ5LmNvbS8yMDE2L2Nlcy0yMDE2LyJdfSwiZXhwIjoxNzc5ODc2MTg1LCJpYXQiOjE3NzcyODQxODUsImlzcyI6Imh0dHBzOi8vYXBwLnBhc3Nwb3J0Lm9ubGluZS9vYXV0aCIsInNjb3BlIjoiZmVlZDpyZWFkIGFydGljbGU6cmVhZCBhc3NldDpyZWFkIGNhdGVnb3J5OnJlYWQgZW50aXRsZW1lbnRzIiwic3ViIjoiMDE5NTE2ZjEtYTM0Ni03NjE0LTllOTYtYjYzYmQxMWZlODU2IiwidXNlIjoiYWNjZXNzIn0.uQmDP5aZpw0rsyYGe6RnWUL8vBNW9Ybhu9nAf2LQy5vhCOI_9oQ6W-ajZUIkPJu39qkEpdEVdW0TW5wC6TkA6ZQcN-SGlVQKhWjpSL-NFDRWEkyqTfrQpym3WPxLRVotjm-HoaUH4DPA0KvgDY5SyLjy-OF_GHAkmfTLA7JfA2D4nDGDvrml2BLAHxZbzdLrp2Me1hjFnr_hignfrAfU0lJ6YAz7ssx0L2u2t0jBI6tXDUBeYU-nYVWWOcQnvyI5weHdXGJJAQUoyPGb7xS8FSdy-HjYF2RU42ArM2SdcF5KBcOO-iL8oRcgd8l_XoRc9_ythzfQ5jwfhSKnG6M9kw
- https://www.engadget.com/wearables/metas-emg-wristband-is-moving-beyond-its-ar-glasses-120000503.html
- https://stratechery.passport.online/member
- https://stratechery.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fstratechery.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FCLKjCzLJnXsHRUFPqZ2K9
- https://sharptech.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharptech.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FCLKjCzLJnXsHRUFPqZ2K9
- https://dithering.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fdithering.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FCLKjCzLJnXsHRUFPqZ2K9
- https://sharpchina.fm/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fsharpchina.fm%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FCLKjCzLJnXsHRUFPqZ2K9
- https://goat.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fgoat.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FCLKjCzLJnXsHRUFPqZ2K9
- https://asianometry.passport.online/member/podcast?url=https%3A%2F%2Fasianometry.passport.online%2Ffeed%2Fpodcast%2FCLKjCzLJnXsHRUFPqZ2K9
- https://stratechery.passport.online/member/login?email=cmatecun%40gmail.com
- https://www.stratechery.com
